
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE CITY OF WICHITA, KANSAS
CITY OF
WICHITA
and
Teamsters Union Local 795 (Transit)
Wichita, Kansas
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into by and between the City of Wichita,
hereinafter referred to as the "City", and Teamsters Union Local #795 affiliated with
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, hereinafter referred to as the "Union."
Date Effective: December 06, 2025
Date Ending: December 1, 2028 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE 3
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION 3
ARTICLE 2- NEGOTIATIONS 3
ARTICLE 3- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND PREROGATIVES 3
ARTICLE 4- EMPLOYEE COOPERATION 4
ARTICLE 5- STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS 4
ARTICLE 6- NONDISCRIMINATION 4
ARTICLE 7- Shop stewards
ARTICLE 8- PROBATIONARY PERIOD 5
ARTICLE 9- TERMINATIONS AND SUSPENSIONS 6
ARTICLE 10- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION 6
ARTICLE 11- REDUCTION IN PERSONNEL - RE-EMPLOYMENT 8
ARTICLE 12- WAGE RATES 9
ARTICLE 13- OVERTIME SIGN-ON - FULL-TIME MOTOR COACH OPERATORS 10
ARTICLE 14- OVERTIME SIGN-ON - MAIN PENANCE EMPLOYEES 11
ARTICLE 15- RUNS - DAY OFF 11
ARTICLE 16- SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RUNS 12
ARTICLE 17- OPERATION - EXTRA BOARD 13
ARTICLE 18 -OPERATOR RELIEF 14
ARTICLE 19- LATE REPORTS 15
ARTICLE 20- PROTECTION TIME 16
ARTICLE 21 - TIME ALLOWANCES 16
ARTICLE 22- MINIMUM PAY PROVISIONS 16
ARTICLE 23- WORK WEEK, DAY OFF, OVERTIME - MAIN PENANCE EMPLOYEES 16
ARTICLE 24- ASSIGNMENT OF WORK - MAIN PENANCE EMPLOYEES 17
ARTICLE 25- PROMOTION AND FILLING OF VACANCIES - MAINTENANCE 17
ARTICLE 26- SENIORITY 18
ARTICLE 27 -PENSIONS 18
ARTICLE 28- INSURANCE 19
ARTICLE 29- VACATIONS 20
ARTICLE 30- ABSENTEEISM 21
ARTICLE 31 - HOLIDAYS 23
ARTICLE 32- LEAVE OF ABSENCE 24
ARTICLE 33- COURT ATTENDANCE - JURY DUTY 24
ARTICLE 34- UNIFORMS-UNIFORM REGULATIONS 24
ARTICLE 35- SAFETY - ACCIDENTS - PREVENTION - REPORTS 25
ARTICLE 36- EXACT FARE 26
ARTICLE 37- TRANSPORTATION TO WORK SI 1'E 26
ARTICLE 38- PARATRANSIT VAN OPERATORS 26
ARTICLE 39- PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 27
ARTICLE 40- MISCELLANEOUS 28
ARTICLE 41 -INJURY LEAVE 28
ARTICLE 42- SUBCONTRACTING 29
ARTICLE 43- SEPARABILITY 30
ARTICLE 44- DURATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF AGREEMENT 30
ARTICLE 45- SCOPE OF BARGAINING 30
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 2 of 33 December 6, 2025PREAMBLE
In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained involving the mutual interest of the parties
hereto, and in an effort to stabilize employment and secure closer cooperation between the City and the
employees, the parties hereto contract and agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1- RECOGNITION
SECTION 1. The City recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choice and recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative,
insofar as permitted by law, for all full-time and part-time operating and maintenance employees of the
city included within the classifications of employees as set forth in the wage sections of this Agreement.
SECTION 2. When the term "employee" is used herein, it shall mean an employee coming within the
scope of this Agreement.
SECTION 3. If, during the term of this Agreement, state and federal law permits a Union Shop, the
following shall apply to the extent permissible:
All present employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement shall
remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment. All present employees
who are not members of the Union, and all employees who are hired hereafter shall become and remain
members in good standing of the Union as a condition of employment on or after the thirty-first (31st)
day following the beginning of their employment.
SECTION 4. Checkoff. The City agrees to deduct from the pay of all members of the Union covered
by the Agreement, dues, initiation fee, and/or uniform assessments of the Local Union having
jurisdiction over such employees and agrees to remit to said Union all such deductions. Where laws
require written authorization by the Union members, the same is to be furnished in the form required.
No deductions shall be made which are prohibited by applicable law.
SECTION 5. The City will recognize authorization for deductions from wages, if in compliance with
state law, to be remitted to the local Union or to such other organization as the local Union may request.
SECTION 6. The City will make every effort to allocate a portion of time to the Union Stewards
during the orientation/training period of new hires to encourage new employees to join the Union.
ARTICLE 2- NEGOTIATIONS
It is mutually agreed that to the extent this Agreement is not in conflict with any present or subsequent
federal or state law or regulation, the parties agree hereto that all business comprehended by this
Agreement be transacted between the properly accredited officer or designated officials of the City
and the properly accredited officer or designated officials of the Union and an accredited committee
composed of employees of the City.
ARTICLE 3- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND PREROGATIVES
The City retains of the rights and functions of management except to the extent that they are
expressly and specifically modified or limited by specific written provisions of the Agreement. Some of
the rights retained by the City include but are not limited to the rights, power and authority to manage
the City's operations and to direct the work force, to hire and assign employees of its own selection and
determine the number to be employed to maintain efficiency, to extend, maintain, curtail or terminate all
or any part of the operations of the City, to determine the size and location of the City's facilities, to
discontinue old methods or facilities, to establish and prepare job classifications, to assign and reassign
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 3 of 33 December 6, 2025the work to be performed by employees or classification of employees as the City deems necessary or
expedient, to establish and change work assignments and scheduling, to transfer, promote, demote,
terminate or otherwise relieve employees from duties, to establish, maintain and enforce rules for the
maintenance of discipline, to discipline, suspend or discharge employees for just cause, to determine,
establish, change and modify quality standards and judgment of workmanship required, to determine
what work, if any, shall be performed by contractors, to determine the number and starting times of
shifts, the hours of work and the number of hours and days in the work week for all employees, to
establish operating, work and disciplinary rules and require employees to observe rules and regulations.
The above rights of management are not all inclusive but indicate the type of matters in which rights
shall belong to or are inherent to management.
ARTICLE 4- EMPLOYEE COOPERATION
SECTION 1. Employees shall work at all times to the best interest of the City; they shall perform
efficient service in their work; they shall operate and handle the City's vehicles carefully, safely, and
with the utmost regard to the safety of passengers, the general public, and the equipment entrusted to
their care; they shall operate and handle the City's vehicles at all times in full compliance with
reasonable rules of the City; they shall give the riding public courteous and respectful treatment at all
times to the end that the City's services may improve and grow; they shall at all times use their influence
and best endeavors to preserve and protect the interest of the City and cooperate in the promotion and
advancement of the City's interest. All employees are required to have a working telephone at their
residence and provide the City with their telephone number.
SECTION 2. The employer will recognize the employees as professionals. The employer will treat
employees with dignity and respect at all times. Employees will also treat each other, as well as the
employer, with dignity and respect
ARTICLE 5- STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
SECTION 1. During the life of this Agreement neither the Union nor the employees covered by this
Agreement shall call, sanction, assist, or engage in any strike, slowdown, or stoppage of the City's work,
operations, or service, or in any manner sanction, assist or engage in any restrictions or limitation of the
work, operations, or services of the City except and unless permitted elsewhere in this Agreement.
SECTION 2. During the term of this Agreement, the City shall not cause or permit any lock-out of any
of the employees covered by this Agreement.
SECTION 3. The primary purpose of this Article rests in the mutual desire of the parties to this
Agreement to provide uninterrupted service to the citizens and residents served by the City. Therefore it
is the intent of the parties that the procedures of settling differences between the parties as established in
this Agreement shall be adhered to and there shall be no strike which will affect the uninterrupted
service of the City to the citizens and residents served by the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 6- NONDISCRIMINATION
SECTION 1. No employee shall be discriminated against because of race, color, national origin, age,
sex, religion, ancestry, physical disability or because of union activity or non-activity by either the City
or the Union.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 4 of 33 December 6, 2025ARTICLE 7- STEWARDS
SECTION 1. The Union agrees to furnish the City with an up-to-date list of all of its Stewards, and to
immediately notify the City of any changes thereto.
SECTION 2. Stewards are assistants to the Business Agents. Business Agents have final say in all
disputes or settlements which involve the majority of the work force.
SECTION 3. The Union shall be represented by employee shop stewards, who shall be selected in any
manner determined by the Union on a basis of one steward for every twenty-five employees (or major
fraction thereof) with a minimum of one shop steward per shift.
SECTION 4. The authority of job stewards so designated by the Union shall be limited to, and shall not
exceed the following duties:
a. the investigation and presentation of grievances in accordance with the provisions of the
agreement;
b. the collection of dues when authorized by the Union.
c. the transmission of such messages and information which shall originate with and are authorized
by the Union.
SECTION 5. The job steward shall not absent themselves from their place of work to visit other parts
of the work area without permission of the supervisors or superintendent. Any reasonable request will
be granted, provided it does not interfere with efficient operation.
SECTION 6. There shall be no discrimination against any person acting as a steward for the union. All
grievances shall be first reported to the steward whenever possible. The steward will make every effort
to perform his duties without disrupting the services provided by the City. All grievances shall be
submitted to the steward in writing.
SECTION 7. For the purposes of negotiating a successor collective bargaining agreement with the
City, time off for Union business with pay shall be provided, subject to the following: the time off shall
be scheduled in one half day increments; the amount of paid time shall be limited to 100 hours per
contract; the time off will be limited to the actual days when both negotiating teams are in session or
caucus; and provided forty-eight (48) hours written notice is given to the City by the Union specifying
the length of time off. The Union agrees that in making its request for time off consideration shall be
given to the number of persons affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the City's operations
due to lack of available employees.
ARTICLE 8- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
SECTION 1. A new employee shall work under the provisions of this Agreement but shall be
employed only on a one hundred eighty (180)-day probation period, during which period he or she may
be discharged at the discretion of the City, provided, however, that the City may not discharge or
discipline for the purpose of evading this Agreement or discriminating against Union members. This
period shall include a sixty-day training period, and members can join the Union after 60 days.
SECTION 2. Operators selected to fill any new position within the Operations division shall be given a
reasonable trial period, not to exceed 90 days, within which to demonstrate their ability to perform the
duties of such new position or work. If the employee unsuccessfully completes the trial period, such
employee shall be returned to their former position without loss of seniority.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 5 of 33 December 6, 2025ARTICLE 9- TERMINATIONS AND SUSPENSIONS
SECTION 1. The City shall not discharge, or suspend, without just cause. Prior to any of the above-
mentioned actions, the company shall give at least one written reprimand to the employee with a copy of
said reprimand to the Union, except that no written reprimand nor any progressive discipline need be
given an employee before he or she is suspended or terminated, if the cause of such action is a Class I
Rule violation as specified in the operator's handbook. Discharge must be in writing to the employee
with a copy to the Union.
SECTION 2. Within 10 working days of knowledge of an incident that could lead to suspension or
termination, the City will provide written acknowledgement to the employee and Union of the
possibility of suspension or termination. The written acknowledgement will describe the incident in
question. Failure to provide timely written acknowledgement will not eliminate the potential discipline.
However, if written acknowledgment is not timely, the employee and/or Union can request to delay the
disciplinary hearing for an additional 5 working days to gather additional information and/or
exculpatory evidence. Any employee may request an investigation by the Union as to their discharge or
suspension. The City agrees that when conducting an interview with an employee, the City will not
proceed with the interview after a determination to discipline, or after discipline is reasonably
contemplated, without the presence of a steward or alternate steward. At this point, the interview will
not continue until the steward or alternate steward is present. The employee may waive representation
by the steward or alternate steward, in writing, and a copy shall be sent to the Union.
SECTION 3. Notices permitted or required to be served under the terms of this agreement shall be
satisfactorily served for all purposes herein when faxed, mailed, or emailed to the employee and:
Teamsters Union Local #795, 4921 Cessna Street, Wichita, Kansas 67210-1210. Copies of letters of
discharge shall be faxed, mailed, hand delivered, or emailed to employee and the Union as described
above. The date of the signed receipt of such notices or the time/date stamp on a fax shall be the
controlling date for all purposes hereunder. Any party may give a change of address to the other party
through written notice.
SECTION 4. At any time that an employee is to be suspended or discharged, at least one Union
Steward will be given notice of such during that working day provided a Union Steward is on duty
during that period. When possible, in cases of suspension or discharge of an operator an Operations
Steward will be notified first and in cases of suspension or discharge of a maintenance employee a
Maintenance Steward will be notified first.
SECTION 5. Any letter of disciplinary action to be placed in an employee's personnel file shall specify
the date when the letter is to be removed from the file (provided no subsequent discipline has been
imposed during that period), or if appropriate, specify that the letter is permanent and shall not be
removed from the file. Records of discipline involving no loss of pay will remain in the employee's file
for one year from the date of the violation and will be removed at the employee's request if no other
violations have occurred in that time period. Disciplinary action resulting in a loss of pay, injury to an
employee, or damage to City property/property of the general public/City equipment/equipment of the
general public becomes part of the employee's permanent personnel record.
ARTICLE 10- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
SECTION 1. A grievance is defined as any dispute involving the interpretation, application, or alleged
violations of any provisions of this agreement.
SECTION 2. In the settlement of a grievance under the terms of this Agreement, the following
procedure shall be observed:
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 6 of 33 December 6, 2025a. b. The grievance shall be taken in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10)
workdays after notification of the written reprimand suspension, demotion or termination by the
aggrieved employee and Union steward. All grievances signed by the grieved party and filed by
the Union. The supervisor will render a decision within ten (10) work days in writing to the
grievant and Union steward. A copy of the grievance response will be mailed, faxed or e-mailed
to the Union's Local office within this (10) workday period. In cases of termination, the
grievant may proceed directly to step (d) of this procedure within (10) workdays from the
employee's receipt of termination notice.
Should the grievance not be resolved, the grievance must be forwarded to the Director of Wichita
Transit by the Union steward within ten (10) workdays from the date of receipt of the decision of
the supervisor. The Director of Wichita Transit will render a decision within ten (10) workdays
in writing to the grievant and Union steward. A copy of the grievance response will be mailed,
faxed or e-mailed to Union's Local office within this ten (10) workday period.
c. Should the grievance not be resolved by the Director of Wichita Transit, the employee may
within ten (10) workdays of the completion of step (b), put the grievance in the form of a signed
letter and send it to the Employee Relations Officer. The Employee Relations Officer shall
require of the Director of Wichita Transit a letter to the Employee Relations Officer setting forth
specific reason for the decision made. The letter must be submitted to the Employee Relations
Officer within ten (10) workdays.
d. The Employee Relations Officer shall within ten (10) workdays after receipt of letter from the
employee, contact the Local Union, the employee, and all supervisory personnel concerned and
attempt to resolve the grievance. The written results of the findings of the Employee Relations
Officer will be given to the employee, the Local Union and the Human Resource Director within
fifteen (15) workdays of the receipt of the employee's original letter. Upon verbal request of the
ERO a five (5) days extension of the time limit may be granted. A copy of the ERO's grievance
response will be mailed, faxed or e-mailed to the Local Union within this fifteen (15) workday
period.
SECTION 3. The Union agrees that neither party will unreasonably delay the processing of such cases
and all cases will be heard within 30 days unless mutually agreed to by the Union and City.
SECTION 4. If a mutually satisfactory resolution is not reached, either of the parties may demand
arbitration within ten (10) days of the time the latest decision was received above. If no settlement is
reached and no demand for arbitration made within this period, the grievances shall be forever barred
and extinguished.
SECTION 5. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in calculating the time limits herein
specified.
SECTION 6. In the event the Union or City has demanded that a grievance be submitted to arbitration
as herein provided, the parties shall, within fifteen (15) days of the demand for arbitration, jointly and in
writing, petition the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of the names of five (5)
competent and available arbitrators, from which the parties shall select the impartial arbitrator. Within
ten (10) days after receiving such a list the President of the Union and an official of the City or their
respective designees shall alternately strike one name from said list, until only one (1) name remains,
and the person whose name remains on said list shall become the impartial arbitrator. The order of
striking names shall be determined by a toss of a coin. In the event that the remaining name is not
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 7 of 33 December 6, 2025mutually acceptable to both parties, then this name shall be set aside and a new list shall be requested.
This process shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible.
SECTION 7. If it is necessary to appoint a successor for the impartial arbitrator, such successor shall
be selected in the same manner as the original impartial arbitrator was selected. Any successor arbitrator
shall act with the same power and authority as though originally appointed.
SECTION 8. The Board of Arbitration shall meet at such time as may be mutually agreed upon
between the parties and shall continue to meet until all of the evidence and arguments have been
received and heard. The Board of Arbitration shall establish its own rules of procedure not inconsistent
with the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 9. The arbitrator selected in accordance with this Article shall have jurisdiction only to
interpret, apply, or determine compliance with the express provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator
shall have no power to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and shall consider and render decisions upon only such issues as are directly raised by the
written grievance taken to arbitration, which grievance shall not in any way be changed or amended
after it is presented in accordance with the provisions of this article. The arbitrator may interpret the
express provisions of this Agreement, only insofar as it is necessary to the determination of the
grievance at issue.
SECTION 10. The recommendation of the arbitrator shall be delivered to the City Manager and Union
in writing. The arbitrator shall recommend no award outside the scope of his authority outlined in
Section 9 of this article, or effecting a change, modification, or addition to this Agreement and shall
confine himself strictly to the facts submitted at the hearing, the evidence and stipulations before him
and the express terms and provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 11. The fees and expenses of the impartial arbitrator, as well as other expenses incidental to
the arbitration, shall be borne equally by the City and the Union, however each party shall be
responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses and its costs incurred in presenting
its case to the arbitrator.
SECTION 12. In the course of an investigation, any statements given by employees regarding other
employees must be given freely and without threat of retaliation.
SECTION 13. The City Manager shall render a decision within ten (10) days after receipt of the
Arbitrator's recommendation and the decision of the City Manager is final and binding. In the event the
City Manager reverses the recommendations of the Arbitrator, the reasons and findings will be provided
to the grievant in writing.
ARTICLE 11- REDUCTION IN PERSONNEL - RE-EMPLOYMENT
SECTION 1. When it is necessary to reduce the regular force of motor coach operators, van operators,
or maintenance employees, layoffs shall be in the reverse order of seniority as defined in Article 26 and
38 of this Agreement. In all cases of lay-off part-time employees shall be laid off first.
SECTION 2. When it is necessary to reduce the regular force of maintenance employees, layoffs shall
be in the reverse order of seniority in the respective classifications; provided, however, that any senior
employee laid off in a higher classification shall be permitted to displace a junior employee in a lower
classification with less seniority if such senior employee desires to exercise such seniority in a lower
classification. All junior employees so displaced shall have the same privileges of displacement and so
on down the line. Any such displacement privileges must be exercised within five (5) days from any
action giving rise to the privilege.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 8 of 33 December 6, 2025Any senior employee displacing a junior employee must be qualified or be trainable within a ninety (90)
daytime period to perform the job duties of the junior employee being displaced. It is agreed that any
dispute arising from a fording that such senior employee is not so qualified shall be grievable.
SECTION 3. When the regular forces of motor coach operators or maintenance employees are
increased, former employees who were laid off in accordance with Sections 1 and 2 shall be afforded
re-employment in the reverse order in which they were laid off; provided, however, that this Agreement
or any renewal or extension is still in effect, and further provided that no more than twelve (12) months
shall have elapsed since their layoff. Any employee called back under the provisions of this Article, who
is unable to qualify as set forth herein shall forfeit any seniority. The City and the union agree that City
seniority will prevail over divisional seniority for employees who have previously worked within
another division and are subject to the wage provisions of that division, and all other provisions of the
contract.
a. The City and the union agree that the union will be notified in advance of any reduction in staff
which affects the union membership. Notification will take place as soon as the City is aware of
a lay off situation.
SECTION 4. In the re-employment of persons in accordance with this article, the following procedure
shall be followed:
a. Notices permitted or required to be served under the terms of this Agreement, unless otherwise
specifically covered by this Agreement, shall be satisfactorily served for all purposes herein
when faxed, mailed, or emalled to the employee and: Teamsters Union Local 795, 4921 Cessna,
Wichita, Kansas, 67210-1210. Copies of letters of discharge shall be faxed, mailed, or emailed to
the employee and the Union as described above. The date of the signed receipt of such notices
or the time/date stamp of a fax or email shall be the controlling date for all purposes hereunder.
Any party may give a change of address to the other party through written notice.
b. Persons so notified to work must report for work within ten (10) working days after the date of
mailing of the letter or forfeit their seniority and re-employment rights hereunder.
SECTION 5. When a layoff occurs and the person so laid off is offered re-employment under the
provision of this Article, such person must be able to perform the work requirements under the then
existing employment standards of the City and must submit to an examination to show such person is
physically fit to return to work. Any employee failing or refusing to take such physical examination and
failing to qualify under the then existing employment standards of the City shall forfeit their seniority
and any rights of re-employment with the City.
SECTION 6. In the event the City shall have acquired new operating equipment during any period of
layoff the City shall provide, and the rehired employee shall attend a training session on such new
equipment.
ARTICLE 12- WAGE RATES
SECTION 1. Employees shall be paid in accordance with the hourly wage rates as specified in
appendix A according to their classification of employment. The number of employees in any
classification shall be as determined by the operating requirements of the City. All current employees
will be paid no less than their current wage rate as of 12/06/2025 plus a 3% GPA and a 2.5% merit step
increase will be given on their anniversary date. A $500 bonus will be provided to O step employees on
their anniversary date. Effective 12/05/ 2026 there will be a 3.0% GPA increase, and a 2.5% merit step
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 90f33 December 6, 2025increase will be given on their anniversary date. A $500 bonus will be provided to O step employees on
their anniversary date. Effective 12/04/2027 there will be a 3% GPA increase, a 2.5% merit step increase
will be given on their anniversary date. A $500 bonus will be provided to O step employees on their
anniversary date.
SECTION 2. The pay plan adopted by the City is a merit system. The union recognizes that merit
increases are granted upon satisfactory completion of the required time in grade for each step and for
work performance that meets or exceeds expectations of the position. The union recognizes that merit
increases may also be deferred for work performance reasons. However, when a merit increase has been
approved by the division/department and has not been processed so that the employee receives his/her
increase at the scheduled pay period effective date, and where the processing delay was due to no fault
of the employee, or circumstances beyond the control of the City, the employee shall be paid
retroactively to the scheduled date of the increase. Exceptions must be approved by the Personnel
Director.
SECTION 3. hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
All employees shall be paid an additional 50¢ per hour for all time worked between the
SECTION 4. In consideration of long and faithful service, the City shall, in addition to regular salary,
pay longevity pay to long-term employees. To receive longevity pay, the employee must have
completed six (6) years total accumulative service with the City. The monthly amount of this pay shall
be $4.00 per month times the employee's total years accumulative service with the City. For employees
who have completed eleven (11) years total accumulative service with the City, the amount shall be
$5.00 per month times the employee's years of accumulative service with the City. Rehired employees
with prior creditable service will earn longevity pay based on their adjusted start-work date after
completion of two (2) years of service.
SECTION 5. An operator required to perform protecting time as provided in Article 20 may be
released by the Dispatcher at such time as the Dispatcher determines. The Dispatcher may require such
operator to call in at a specified time to determine if further work is available. An operator required to
make such call will be paid one (1) hour for such call. Failure to call in as required will result in a "late".
The call must be made within 15 minutes before the specified call time in order to receive the one hour
pay and to avoid being charged with a late.
SECTION 6. Employees will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of
forty (40) hours per week. Except for holidays (Personal Day not included), injury leave and jury duty,
leaves of absence will not be included as hours worked when computing eligibility for overtime even
though the leave may have been paid leave.
ARTICLE 13- OVERTIME SIGN-ON - FULL-TIME MOTOR COACH OPERATORS
SECTION 1.
An overtime sign-on sheet will be posted each week from 12:00 p.m. on Saturday until 2:00 p.m. Friday.
Regular operators may sign this sheet to indicate their desire to work any overtime which may become
available in the next week. After 2:00 p.m. on Friday the sheet will be redlined and no further signatures
will be allowed. The sheet format will allow operators to indicate availability for overtime on regularly
scheduled day off, any certain day of the week, or to indicate general availability for overtime. A copy
of the overtime sheet will be made available to shop stewards each week or when requested after it is
removed from the dispatch window.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 10 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 2. Overtime operators will be subject to rules which govern the extra board, and will be
considered an extension of the extra board except that regular run assignments shall have priority. It is
the responsibility of each operator signing the overtime sheet to see if dispatch has assigned them any
additional work during the times they indicated they signed up to work. The extra board sheet will be
time stamped. Operators signing for overtime and failing to give at least 24-hour notice of not being
available for work will be subject to disciplinary action.
SECTION 3. Overtime work which becomes available shall be assigned to regular operators who have
signed the overtime sheet in accordance with seniority, among those signing. However, day-off
operators will be considered first. Operators will not be considered for extra work that may conflict with
their regular run regardless of seniority.
SECTION 4. Operators not signing the overtime sheet will forfeit their right to all pay claims for extra
work.
SECTION 5. A late or no call - no show will be charged to any operator signing the overtime sheet
who is late for or misses assigned extra work.
SECTION 6. Special Events — The following procedure will be used for Special Events:
1. Posting for volunteers
2. Extra-board rotation
ARTICLE 14- OVERTIME SIGN-ON - MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES
SECTION 1. There will be an overtime board posted in the Maintenance area. Maintenance employees
wishing to work overtime, will sign the overtime board to be posted and signed on a bi-weekly basis.
Overtime shall be distributed equally among all employees on the board in their respective
classifications. When overtime becomes available it will go to the qualified employee who has gone the
longest without overtime starting at the end of the last pay period. Overtime work which becomes
available shall be assigned as follows:
First: Employees on the board who are regularly scheduled off for the day.
Second: Employees signed on the board who are available during the time needed.
Third: Employees not on the board but who are available during the time needed.
SECTION 2. Any employee by request to the Superintendent of Maintenance shall be relieved of his or
her obligation to work overtime, provided another qualified employee in his or her classification is
ready, willing and able to perform the required overtime work. In the event an employee requests relief
from overtime obligations, such relief will be granted only when the junior person in seniority in said
classification and shift is qualified to perform such work and then in such event, he or she shall be
assigned thereto.
ARTICLE 15- RUNS - DAY OFF
SECTION 1. A regularly assigned run is a day's work selected by a bus operator in accordance with his
or her seniority and assigned to that person for an extended period whenever there is a selection and
assignment of regular runs. All other pieces of work shall be classified as extra work when temporarily
manned by bus operators other than those to whom they were originally assigned.
SECTION 2. Bus and van operators who have sufficient seniority to select and are assigned to
regularly scheduled runs during a selection and assignment of runs are defined as regular bus and van
operators.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 11 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 3. All regular bus and van operators shall be entitled to at least one (1) day off, in addition
to Sunday, each week. In the event that Sunday service is introduced, all employees will have two (2)
days off each week.
SECTION 4. The City agrees to make every effort possible in the planning and arrangement of the
operating schedules, to maximize 5 day, utilize 4 day and limit 6 day work weeks for as large a
percentage of the bid run operators as possible.
SECTION 5. Regular run operators shall not be used on their day off for extra pieces of work until and
unless all available extra board has been exhausted.
ARTICLE 16- SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RUNS
SECTION 1. Runs shall be selected on a seniority basis; that is, the senior operator in service may
select any run of his or her choice. The next senior operator in service may then make his or her
selection and so on down the seniority list. Run assignment bids for full-time and part-time will be on
separate boards.
SECTION 2. There shall be a minimum of three (3) run assignments annually. The run assignment bids
would be coordinated with school commencement dates, normally in mid to late May: mid to late
August and mid to late December. The City will make every effort to space run assignments
approximately four (4) months apart. This section shall not be construed as prohibiting additional run
assignments to meet the operating needs of the City for new or revised services.
SECTION 3. Run selections shall be made at a day and time set by the City, and notification given to
the Union Stewards prior to the effective annual assignment dates upon request. A draft copy of the run
assignments and schedules will be posted at least five (5) days before the day of run selections, and it is
the responsibility of each driver to review the run assignments prior to the sign-on time. Any minor
changes after posting will include copies of change given to the union stewards.
SECTION 4. The sign-on period will be posted on the dispatch window at least five (5) days before
sign-on begins.
SECTION 5. Any operator who fails to comply with the sign-on procedure set by the City will forfeit
his/her turn to sign-on. Operators who forfeit their turn will be placed at the bottom of the seniority
roster to bid after all other operators have completed the bidding. Bypassed operators will return to their
normal place of seniority upon completion of the bid.
In the event an operator is absent for vacation or other approved absence at the time of a run assignment,
the following procedure will be followed to assure timely signing.
a. The operator will provide the dispatch, in writing, at least three (3) run choices in order of
preference. A copy will be provided to union steward
b. When the operator's turn for sign-on arrives, the Superintendent of Transportation or designee
will enter the operator's name next to the highest available choice.
SECTION 6. Should an operator not be working at the time of a run assignment as a result of extended
injury, illness or leave of absence as provided in Article 33, Section 2 of this Agreement, said operator
shall be passed over in the run assignment.
SECTION 7. An operator passed over due to extended absence may, upon return to work, elect to work
on the extra board or may "bump" an operator junior to him/her in seniority. Operators bumped under
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 12 of 33 December 6, 2025this provision may in turn "bump" an operator junior to him/her in seniority or work the extra board.
This process will continue in order of seniority until an operator elects to operate from the extra board.
SECTION 8. The bumping procedure of paragraph 7 is applicable only to extended injury, illness or
approved leave of absence and is not applicable to any other absence or for any other purpose.
SECTION 9. A "bump(s)" shall take effect on the following Saturday after the bump. A bumped
operator may choose to bump or move to the extra board. Bumps must be made prior to returning to
work or within two (2) working days of returning to work or being bumped. If an operator fails to bump
within two (2) days of their return to work then they will be assigned by the Operations Director.
SECTION 10. In the event the return to work as provided in Section 9 is within thirty (30) days prior to
the effective date of the next run assignment the returning operator shall be assigned to the extra board
and shall not be permitted to "bump" for a run.
SECTION 11. Run assignments will be placed into effect on Saturday only. "Bumps" as set forth in
paragraph 9 through 12 of this Article will be placed into effect on the following Saturday.
SECTION 12. Whenever it is known that a regularly assigned run will be vacant for a period of thirty
(30) days or more, unless there are operational needs of the City to extend the thirty (30) days with
proper notification given to the Union, the City shall post a bid sheet for that run for a period of three (3)
days from 2:00 p.m. the first day to 2:00 p.m. the third day. This does not apply to operators being off
sick. Any operator may sign for the open run and the run will be assigned to the senior person bidding
on such vacant run.
SECTION 13. Bidding of runs: Once an operator places his/her name on a job bid, said operator may
not remove his/her name from the bid sheet.
SECTION 14. The City and the Union agree that new routes, or expanded hours, will be bid.
ARTICLE 17- OPERATION - EXTRA BOARD
SECTION 1. The extra board is established for the purpose of furnishing extra operators so that all
extra work may be completed as scheduled or as the service may require. Extra board operators shall
respond to all calls made on them by the Company. All Extra Board Operators must have a working
telephone. In the event their telephone has been disconnected, they will have forty-eight hours to
reconnect, or they will be forced off the Extra Board and made to take the last run that was available
when the run pick came to an end. All extra board will be offered to the full-time extra board before
offering it to the part-time extra board.
SECTION 2. Operators bidding the Extra board must be approved by Operations Division. Operators
must be willing and able to perform all job duties of the Extra Board and drive any equipment. Any
operator appearing questionable in this area will be given thirty days to prove themselves. If after the
end of thirty days the Operator still cannot perform the duties properly, the Operator will be obligated to
take the last run that was open when the bidding was closed.
SECTION 3. When Extra Board operators are not available, regular operators may be called upon by
the Company to perform extra work. Such extra work shall be in accordance with rules for overtime
work in article 13, Sections 1 through 5.
SECTION 4. Beginning with the first day of any run assignment, all extra operators will be placed on
that day's work sheet in accordance with their seniority. New operators will be placed in the No. 1
position on the work sheet the first day they work, except if it would be the first day of a new run
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 13 of 33 December 6, 2025assignment, then they would take position according to seniority. Operators on leave, upon returning
back to work, will take the bottom of the Extra Board the first day back.
SECTION 5. Any piece of work to be filled from the extra board will be filled in this manner. The
piece of work with the earliest sign-on time will be assigned to the extra board operator in the No. 1
position and so on, until all pieces of work have been filled, (with the exception of shine assignments).
Extra board operators will be limited to fourteen (14) hours per day whenever possible. The remaining
extra board operators will be assigned to a shine assignment, if needed.
SECTION 6. The Extra Board will be operated as a rotating board, and the Extra Board operator
working the least number of hours in any one day will move up the Work Assignment Sheet for the
following day to the top position, and so on down the board on the basis of hours worked by each the
previous day.
SECTION 7. Any extra board operator who has obtained a pre-approved excused absence, no less than
48 hours in advance of the need for leave from work for the entire day, will hold the same position on
the extra board the following day. If an employee works a partial shift, they will continue the normal
rotation the following day.
SECTION 8. Excused absences of Extra Board operators will be handled in the same manner as regular
operators.
SECTION 9. All Extra Board operators will be scheduled for a minimum of forty (40) hours per week.
If the City fails to assign an extra board operator 40 hours in a week, and the extra board operator works
all of the regular assignments, he/she will be paid for 40 hours. Employees who miss work assignments
for any reason that has not been pre-approved the extra board operator will lose the 40 hour guarantee
and be paid for actual time worked.
ARTICLE 18- OPERATOR RELIEF
SECTION 1. Operator reliefs shall be made in a timely manner in accordance with run assignment
schedules. In the event the relief operator or extra board person assigned to the relief fails to make the
relief on time, the City may require the operator to work up to three hours. In the event a relief operator
fails to show, the operator shall immediately notify the Dispatcher or Supervisor.
SECTION 2. The Dispatcher is to notify the operator by the most expeditious means available if the
operator is not going to be relieved at his or her relief time. This applies only if the Dispatcher or
Supervisor is aware of the delay in relief in sufficient time to inform the operator.
SECTION 3. In the event an operator is required to make two additional trips as provided herein, the
operator may elect to continue the run until the scheduled end of the run or until the next scheduled
relief. The operator electing to continue the run shall notify the dispatcher of such election prior to
making the two additional trips herein before required.
SECTION 4. In the event the operator elects to continue the run to its end or the next scheduled relief
the relieving operator or extra board person assigned to the relief shall lose all claim to any hours which
would have been operated had the relief been affected on time.
SECTION 5. In the event the operator does not elect to continue the run to its end or the next scheduled
relief and the City fails to provide a relief operator at the end of the two trips herein before required, the
operator may return the bus to the garage at the end of the two trips without penalty.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 14 of 33 December 6, 2025ARTICLE 19- LATE REPORTS
SECTION 1. Timely service to the public is a basic principle of the operation of a bus system. Failure
to report for work or failure to report on time by employees jeopardizes the ability of the City to provide
timely service. Consequently, rules relating to late with specified penalties are provided.
SECTION 2. A "late" is defined as a failure to report for work at the time specified on the run
assignment or a failure to notify the dispatcher sixty (60) minutes in advance of report time.
SECTION 3. Administration:
a. b. c. d. e. f. Lates shall be recorded on the daily dispatch sheet by the dispatcher and shall be entered on a
record for each individual employee by the Supervisor. Individuals may review this attendance
record during regular office hours.
Lates will be recorded by the dispatcher as they occur.
An operator charged with a late shall be placed on the bottom of the extra board for that date and
may be required to take a piece of work which may become available on that date, unless Section
2 above pertains.
Failure to show up or call the dispatch office within one hour of sign-on time, (unless criteria in
Section 2 has been met), will count as a no-call, no-show. If an operator clears for the next week
day by 11:00 a.m. they will assigned their normal run. Operators returning to work from any
absence who failed to clear by 11:00 a.m. may be assigned work if available.
Any employee receiving a "late" will be allowed to work the late off before the normal rolling
twelve (12) month period by meeting the following criteria:
• Employee must make themselves available to the dispatcher for the remainder of the day
that they receive the late without pay. The employee will be compensated for any work
that is assigned.
• Employees must make themselves available for any and all work for a period of four (4)
consecutive weeks following the week in which the employee received the late. The
employee will be placed on the overtime sheet for the 4 week period. The only exception
allowed will be vacation.
• Any "late" within the four (4)-week period will terminate this provision and subject the
employee to the next step in the disciplinary process.
• Only two (2) lates can be worked off in any "calendar" year.
The following measures will be taken regarding lates and no-call/no-show occurring within any
rolling twelve (12) month period:
One — Three Lates: Written Reprimand
Fourth late: One-day suspension without pay
Fifth late: Three-day suspension without pay
Sixth late: Termination
No-call/no-show: 1St instance - written reprimand, 2nd instance - three (3)-day
suspension without pay, 3rd instance — termination.
A yearly bonus of $250.00 will be paid to employees for perfect attendance. Perfect attendance is
defined as no lates or absences between January 1-December 31.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 15 of 33 December 6, 2025g. The foregoing procedures shall also be applicable to Maintenance personnel and administered by
the Superintendent of Maintenance or his/her designee.
h. Employees who are absent without notice and fail to contact the City for three (3) consecutive
days may be terminated except in cases of extreme emergency.
ARTICLE 20- PROTECTION TIME
Any bus operator required to report for the purpose of protecting runs, schedules, or other services, shall
be paid for such protecting time at the regular straight time hourly rate of pay for all time so held, with a
minimum of two (2) hours pay time; provided, however, that any such bus operator if, during the course
of a protecting assignment receives a run assignment, the operator shall receive pay for the time spent
protecting such assignment. Overtime board operators will be assigned to protection time according to
availability first, then seniority, among those signing.
ARTICLE 21- TIME ALLOWANCES
SECTION 1. All bus operators shall receive an allowance often (10) minutes as preparatory time on
their first platform assignment of the day and five (5) minutes for each subsequent platform assignment.
Such preparatory time is for the inspection of equipment and other duties arising out of the performance
of their work.
SECTION 2. Such preparatory time shall be computed as part of the scheduled run time and will not be
reflected separately on run assignments.
SECTION 3. Travel time to the start point of the run in addition to the preparatory time shall be
included in the run time. Travel time of 5 minutes or sufficient time to the downtown transfer point shall
be included in reliefs made downtown. The City shall consider additional time for downtown reliefs
when required due to traffic congestion.
SECTION 4. The City may require all employees to attend meetings with pay as necessary to
accomplish their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
ARTICLE 22- MINIMUM PAY PROVISIONS
SECTION 1. No operator shall be required to take an extra special or emergency run which leaves and
returns to the garage for less than two (2) hours paid time.
SECTION 2. All employees will be paid two dollars ($2.00) per hour in addition to the regular straight
time hourly rate of pay during such time as they may be required to instruct trainees. To qualify for this
pay, a trainer must meet all criteria set forth by management. All trainees will be trained on regular
scheduled routes.
SECTION 3. Any employee accumulating a total of eighty (80) hours of training in any twelve (12)
month period shall receive one (1) day off with pay. The day off will be the employee's choice so long
as the company has sufficient help to cover the absence.
ARTICLE 23- WORK WEEK, DAY OFF, OVERTIME - MAINTENANCE
EMPLOYEES
SECTION 1. A working schedule will be posted for each shift in each classification which will
establish the normal day's work in the Maintenance Division. There shall be no split shifts. No employee
shall be required to take more than one (1) hour lunch period. Employees shall have at least one day off
weekly.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 16 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 2. Any maintenance employee called to work, other than his/her regularly scheduled
assignment, will be paid a minimum of two (2) hours.
ARTICLE 24 - ASSIGNMENT OF WORK - MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES
SECTION 1. At such times as the City deems necessary, it shall determine the number of maintenance
employees needed in each classification on each of its work shifts including days off as assigned by the
City on each of its work shifts and post such information on the bulletin board, together with a
classification seniority list for the maintenance employees.
SECTION 2. Maintenance employees shall choose their work shifts, including the days off as have
been assigned by the City, in accordance with their divisional seniority in each classification. Such
bulletin shall remain posted on the bulletin board for five (5) days during the last three (3) days of which
the employees shall make their selection of their work shifts in accordance with their divisional seniority
in each classification. There shall be a minimum of two (2) work shift assignments per year, equally
spaced so as to allow approximately six (6) months between assignments. This section shall not be
construed as prohibiting additional work shift assignments to meet the needs of the City.
SECTION 3. The Superintendent of Maintenance or his designee shall have full charge of the selection
and assignment of work in the Maintenance Division, and should any maintenance employee fail to
promptly select his/her shift, be unable to do so, or be prevented from doing so because of illness,
absence or other reasonable causes, the Superintendent of Maintenance or his designee, shall assign
him/her to a shift for which he/she is entitled by reason of seniority unless absent employee has left
his/her choices with union steward.
SECTION 4. It is the general policy of the City in accordance with its maintenance needs to use its
maintenance employees on work for which they are best qualified; therefore, the maintenance
employees will perform all work assignments to the best of their ability and endeavor to acquire all
knowledge possible to better enable them to perform their assignments well and efficiently.
ARTICLE 25- PROMOTION AND FILLING OF VACANCIES - MAINTENANCE
SECTION 1. Whenever the City shall create a new position or determine that a vacancy exists in any
of the work classifications of the Maintenance Division, it shall be the policy of the City to fill such new
position or vacancy from the ranks of its qualified maintenance employees who bid/apply therefore on
the basis of ability. In the event the qualifications of two (2) or more applicants for the vacancy are
equal, seniority shall govern.
SECTION 2. Notice of any vacancy or new position to be filled as aforesaid shall be posted for a
period of five (5) days on the bulletin board.
SECTION 3. A maintenance employee selected to fill a new position or vacancy as hereinabove
provided shall be given a reasonable trial period not to exceed forty-five (45) days within which to
demonstrate their ability to perform the duties of such new position or work. If the employee
unsuccessfully completes the trial period, such employee shall be returned to his former position without
loss of seniority.
SECTION 4. During the trial period as set forth in this Article the employee's rate of pay shall be that
of the position which said employee has bid.
SECTION 5. The person selected as day lead mechanic shall receive $1.00 per hour in addition to their
regular wage. In the event the night mechanic supervisor is absent for his shift, a night lead mechanic
will be designated and also paid $1.00 per hour in addition to their regular wage. For the early AM
shift, a mechanic will be designated morning lead mechanic until the day lead mechanic arrives, or, in
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 17 of 33 December 6. 2025the event the day lead mechanic is off, the Maintenance Supervisor arrives. Morning lead mechanic
shall receive $1.00 per hour in addition to their regular wage. Regardless of any lead mechanic
provision in this article, this will not preclude any mechanic, A or B, from answering radios and/or
giving assistance to bus/van operators with questions or concerns about vehicle operations. This
assistance would include decisions on whether to shut a bus down, replace a bus (road call), or any other
assistance to ensure bus/van schedules are on-time for the public.
SECTION 6. If in the new position or vacancy as herein provided, no maintenance employee
bids/apply for the job, the operators shall be offered opportunity to qualify along with applicants from
outside the City. Management will determine the qualifications for any job. If an operator who is
selected for the position fails to demonstrate their ability within forty-five (45) days, they shall return to
the extra board with no loss of seniority.
SECTION 7. Mechanics A and B who work during 2nd shift (4:30 pm through 1:00 am) shall receive
$1.50 per hour in addition to their regular pay. Not to be combined with shift pay referenced in Article
12, Section 3.
ARTICLE 26 - SENIORITY
SECTION 1. City seniority computed from the date of hire by the City shall be used for computation of
any benefits such as length of service. Divisional seniority, operations or maintenance, shall be
computed from the latest date of hire in either division, providing the probationary period has been
completed.
SECTION 2. For all purposes relating to seniority except for computation of benefits three (3)
divisions will be recognized - van, (full-time and part-time) bus (full-time and part-time) and
maintenance. Employees may not hold seniority in more than one division of the City.
SECTION 3. The City agrees to keep posted in an accessible place an up-to-date seniority roster
showing the name, date of employment, and seniority of all employees coming within the scope of this
Agreement. Such rosters shall reflect seniority by division and full-time or part-time, classification
within the division, if any. City shall make copies available to union stewards quarterly.
SECTION 4. The seniority of all maintenance employees coming within the scope of this Agreement
shall date from the hour and date that they first reported to an assigned station ready for duty as a
maintenance employee in regular service of the City, provided the probationary period has been
completed.
ARTICLE 27- PENSIONS
SECTION 1. The City shall make contributions to a pension fund for purposes of retirement for each
employee coming within the scope of this Agreement.
SECTION 2. The pension trust for such pension shall be the Central States, Southeast and Southwest
Areas - Pension Fund. There shall be no other pension fund under the Agreement for operations under
this Agreement under the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas - Pension Fund Agreements to
which employees who are party to this Agreement are also parties.
SECTION 3. Contributions to the Pension Fund shall be made for each week on such regular or extra
employees including weeks where work is performed for the City, but not under the provisions of this
Agreement, and although contributions may be made for those weeks into some other pension fund.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 18 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 4. Through the duration of this Agreement, the City shall contribute to the pension fund
$151.90 per week per full time employee effective December 21, 2022, $158.00 per week per full time
employee effective December 21, 2023, $164.30 per week per full time employee effective December
21, 2024, $170.90 per week per full time employee effective December 21, 2025.
SECTION 5. By the execution of this Agreement, the City authorizes the City's Associations which are
parties to said Pension Fund to enter into appropriate trust agreements necessary for the administration
of such Fund, and to designate the City Trustees under such agreement, hereby waiving all notice
thereof and ratifying all actions already taken or to be taken by such Trustees within the scope of their
authority.
SECTION 6. If an employee is absent because of illness or off-the-job injury and notifies the City of
such absence, the City will continue to pay the required contributions for a period of four (4) weeks. If
an employee is injured on the job, the City shall continue to pay the required contributions until such
employee returns to work; however, such contributions shall not be paid for a period of more than
twelve (12) months.
SECTION 7. If an employee is granted a leave of absence, the employee must arrange for and continue
self-payment of required contributions from the first day of and through the period of absence.
SECTION 8. Action for delinquent contributions may be instituted by the local Union, the areas
conference, or the trustees
SECTION 9. At the option of the employee, the City will contribute $10 per pay period per full-time
employee to a City-sponsored deferred compensation account, provided each participating employee
also contributes $10 per pay period. Any City contributions to a deferred compensation account will be
suspended for any week in which the employee is on leave without pay.
SECTION 10. In the event that any part-time employee works 1,000 hours or more in any 12-month
period, pension contributions will be required on the employee thereafter, for the remainder of that year
and all subsequent years, in the same manner and amount as required by this contract for non-part-time
employees. The hours worked after the effective date of the collective bargaining agreement will be
counted toward the 1,000 hour threshold.
ARTICLE 28- INSURANCE
SECTION 1. The City will provide to employees covered under this agreement the same health
insurance program available to all full-time City Employees. For those participating in the City plan, the
City will pay 80% of the health insurance premium of the lowest cost plan offered by the City. The
employee will pay 20% of health insurance costs of the lowest cost health insurance plan offered by the
City and additional costs of any other health plan the employee selects. Participation in the health
insurance program is optional with each employee.
SECTION 2. Life Insurance. The City agrees to provide group life insurance in the amount of two
times the employee's base annual salary, rounded up to the next higher thousand (up to a maximum of
$150,000). The City and employees shall share equally in the cost of the life insurance plan. The life
insurance program is optional with each employee.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 19 of 33 December 6, 2025ARTICLE 29- VACATIONS
SECTION 1. Employees shall earn, on a bi-weekly basis, according to the schedule below. New
employees may not take vacation until the beginning of the pay period following their first six (6)
months; however, those new employees who separate from the City prior to this time period forfeit all
vacation.
Years of Service Days of Vacation
Less than 5 years 10
5 - 9 years 15
10 - 15 years 17
16 — 20 years 20
21 or more years 25
SECTION 2. All vacation time allowance shall be based upon each member's seniority date with the
present City herein and all predecessor companies.
SECTION 3. Employees will be permitted to carry forward earned vacation up to a maximum of two
hundred forty (240) hours.
SECTION 4. Any employee who has quit or is laid off shall be entitled to the vacation pay earned
provided he/she has worked his/her full year. No employee shall be entitled to vacation pay in lieu of
taking vacation.
SECTION 5. Vacation pay shall be paid on the basis of forty (40) straight-time hours per week of
vacation.
SECTION 6. The time for taking of such vacation shall be subject to the determination by the City, and
the City and the employee agree to give the City as much notice as possible when applying for such
vacation. The City also agrees to cooperate in determining a suitable time for such vacation consistent
with the performance of the duties of the City in its maintaining adequate and constant service.
SECTION 7. The vacation period of each qualified employee shall be set with due regard to the desire,
seniority and preference of the employees, consistent with the efficient operation of the City's business.
On the days when the operation is staffed the City may, at its sole discretion, allow employees to take
time off in the following order: 1. Vacation time, Personal Day, or Well Day. 2. Day off without pay.
These days will not count against an employee's attendance record.
SECTION 8. Vacation periods will be bid in weekly increments and will be taken in increments of five
(5) or six (6) days within calendar weeks depending on the work week of the employee at the time
vacation is taken.
SECTION 9. Vacation periods may be "split" provided that the minimums set out in Section 12 below
and other vacation requirements are met. Vacation pay cannot be used to cover sick leave unless it has
been pre-approved. Exceptions can be permitted for long term illness or other special circumstances by
the Transit Director. Employee's reporting absence for illness will be allowed to report to work the day
following their absence.
SECTION 10.
a. A separate vacation sign-on board and seniority roster for full-time and part-time will be posted
the first working day in November of each year permitting employees to sign in order of
seniority for vacation periods to be taken during the weeks of the following calendar year. The
sign-on board will provide opportunity for employees to use all vacation time accrued in the year
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 20 of 33 December 6, 2025prior to the year vacation is taken, with such opportunity spread equitably through the year
consistent with operating needs of the City. The sign-on shall be completed by November 30.
b. Vacation schedules, by classification and full-time or part-time shall be posted on November 1st
of each year for the following year's vacation period. Vacation selections shall be by seniority
within the classification. The posted vacation schedule shall show the weeks available for
vacation and the number of employees in each classification who may be on vacation during
each week. Vacations, for the period January 2nd to December 31st, shall be selected within
thirty (30) calendar days after the schedule is posted.
Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total employees in each classification shall by seniority, select
by week prior to the completion of the vacation schedule. If an employee to select their
vacation in the allotted time frame (24 hours after being notified that they are next time sign on)
as described above, they will select available openings at such time as they are ready. This sign-
on policy will be administered by the Dispatch Supervisor
SECTION 11. The General Manager or his/her designee will control the bid procedure so as to assure
vacations are bid in seniority order among those available to bid, that vacations bid do not exceed
accrued vacation for each operator, that sign-on is made in ink, that any changes made to correct errors
are properly made, and that the bid is completed by December 30.
SECTION 12. Requests to select an open vacation period, or to request consideration for vacation in
addition to the maximum slots scheduled, shall be made in writing to the City on bid forms provided for
such purpose at least two (2) calendar weeks in advance of the week in which the vacation would begin.
Provided this two-week notice is given, such requests will be honored on a seniority basis provided (1)
the request is for a full week of vacation or will exhaust the employee's accrual with less than a full
week of vacation, (2) an opening exists in the time period for which the request is made, and (3) if an
opening does not exist the City is able to grant additional vacation time during the period requested.
Seniority will not apply to requests for vacation with less than two (2) weeks prior notice.
SECTION 13. At the end of the calendar week, two (2) weeks prior to the start of an open vacation
period, the Supervisor will grant vacation to the senior employee(s) bidding in full week or to exhaust
accrual, and then to the senior employee(s) bidding for less than a full week or the level of accrual.
SECTION 14. Depending on the operating needs of the City, it may be possible to allow more
employees off than originally scheduled during a week. In the event the City determines it is possible to
allow additional employees off in a given week it will grant vacation as follows: (1) to the senior
employee(s) bidding with more than two (2) weeks advance notice, and then (2) to the first employee(s)
requesting vacation with less than two (2) weeks' notice, in the order requests are made.
SECTION 15. The Superintendent of Maintenance shall post a vacation sign-on board the first working
day each November on which maintenance personnel may make their requests for vacation in order of
seniority. The number of persons in any job classification permitted to be on vacation during any period
shall be at the discretion of the Superintendent of Maintenance consistent with the requirements of the
City. The sign-on shall be completed by November 30.
ARTICLE 30- ABSENTEEISM
SECTION 1. The parties have met in an attempt to clarify the short term sick leave policy and as a
result of this negotiation agree to the following:
a. Well Day - Effective December 24, 2011, an additional day of leave shall be granted to an
employee who has completed the payroll year as a full-time employee and who has not used
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 21 of 33 December 6, 2025more than 24 hours of sick leave in the preceding payroll year. Any employee who completed
the previous payroll year as a fulltime employee and who did not use any sick leave hours
during the payroll year as a fulltime employee will receive one more additional day of leave.
Well day leave must be taken in increments of not less than thirty (30) minutes, or, according to
department rules, with prior approval of the employee's supervisor.
Well Day Leave may be granted the second pay period of the following payroll year. It is not
cumulative and is not charged against any leave accumulation.
b. If Well Day(s) request are denied two (2) times by management and the requests are at a
minimum of one (1) month apart the Well Day(s) will be paid out in December.
SECTION 2. Any employee who is sick and unable to work shall notify the dispatcher or their
supervisor not later than sixty (60) minutes prior to their run or work assignment in the case of
maintenance employees. Any employee who fails to notify sixty minutes (60) prior without a verifiable
emergency will receive a written warning. A 2°d failure to notify within one (1) year will result in a late
charge for said absence. Employee's reporting absence for illness will be allowed to report to work the
day following their absence and may be assigned work if available.
SECTION 3. A bus operator becoming ill during their run will notify the dispatcher by phone or radio
and request that a relief driver be provided. Maintenance personnel will notify the Maintenance
Supervisor and request to be relieved
SECTION 4. An employee shall accrue sick leave at the rate of one-half day per month (6 days per
year) for the first five years of creditable service. Beginning year six and through year fifteen of
creditable service, sick leave will be accrued at the rate of one day per month (12 days per year).
Beginning year sixteen of creditable service, sick leave will be accrued at the rate of 1.167 days per
month (14 days per year). Sick Leave will be accrued on the basis of an 8 or 9 hour day.
A probationary employee will not be paid for accrued sick leave used during the first six months of
service. Payment for sick leave for other than probation employees is in accordance with established
policies previously defined
SECTION 5. Sick leave pay shall be paid at straight time rates based on the employee's normal run or
work schedule for the hours taken, except that pay for full-time extra board operators shall be based on a
nine (9) hour day if the City bids a six-day work week. Sick leave will be paid in an appropriate amount
to bring the employee's pay for the pay period to 40 hours or in the case of operators holding a run the
pay would bring them to the point that their pay is whole. Sick leave shall not count towards weekly
overtime. No pay shall be granted for sick leave for any day the individual would not have worked their
regular duty assignment (day off). A quarterly bonus of $100.00 will be paid to those employee's taking
eight (8) hours or less sick leave during the quarter. A quarterly bonus of $250.00 will be paid to those
employee's with no sick leave taken during the quarter.
SECTION 6. Any sick leave pay as provided in Section 5 above shall be limited to the available
accrual less any payments received by the individual from worker's compensation, any City-sponsored
wage replacement program, or payments received in lieu of wages as a result of any insurance
settlement.
SECTION 7. Any employee excused for three (3) or more consecutive days or for five (5) or more
days in any thirty (30) day period must have a release from a doctor before they can return to work.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 22 of 33 December 6, 2025Further, when an employee is excused from work for sickness or more than five (5) working days, said
employee will provide the City with a status report on a weekly basis.
SECTION 8. Any employee who is on sick leave and found to be working at another job or engaged in
some other activity not consistent with their alleged sickness may be terminated from further
employment by the City.
SECTION 9. Employees who have exhausted their sick leave will be required to use their accrued
vacation before being placed on leave without pay.
SECTION 10. Sick leave benefits as provided herein shall be cumulative from each year to a maximum
of seventy-five (75) days; no payment shall be made by the City for any accrued sick leave upon
termination. However, the City will pay an employee upon their retirement fifty percent (50%) of the
employee's unused sick leave, or seventy-five percent (75%) if an employee has used 32 hours or less in
previous year.
SECTION 11. In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family: spouse, children
(stepchildren), parents, (stepparents), state-approved foster child, or any relative living in the employee's
home, the employee may be allowed a leave of absence with pay up to a maximum of five (5) work
days, not to exceed 40 hours for full-time employees. For part-time employees this will be prorated on
their current work schedule not to exceed 28 hours. This time is to be taken within a two week period
following the death of the family member. For the death of a brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, or grandchildren,
employees may be allowed up to three (3) workdays, not to exceed 24 hours, to be taken within a two
week period following the death of the family member. This leave must be approved by the department
or division director and is not charged against any leave accumulation. Documentation of funeral or
death may be required.
Any employee who is unable to work because of a death in the immediate family must, prior to the
employee's scheduled time to report, notify the employee's office or immediate supervisor by phone or
messenger.
ARTICLE 31- HOLIDAYS
SECTION 1. The City recognizes the following thirteen (13) holidays as paid holidays for all
employees:
New Year's Day Juneteenth Thanksgiving Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day Independence Day Day after Thanksgiving
President's Day Labor Day Christmas Day
Memorial Day Veteran's Day Two (2) Personal Days
Holiday pay shall be paid on the basis of eight (8) hours straight-time pay per holiday for full-time
employees. Part-time employees will be on the average number of hours they work.
SECTION 2. All operators called to work on any of the above listed holidays shall be paid a minimum
of eight (8) hours pay at the regular rate in addition to the pay referred to in Section 1 of this Article.
SECTION 3. In the event a holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, the employee shall be
granted an additional day's vacation with pay.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 23 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 4. In order to qualify for pay for a holiday not worked, it is provided that employees must
work the regular scheduled work day which immediately precedes and follows the holiday, except in
cases of proven illness or unless the absence is mutually agreed to.
SECTION 5. To qualify for the two (2) personal days as provided above, the employee must have
completed six (6) months of service. Extra pay provision of Section 2 is not applicable to the personal
days. Each year thereafter, the personal days will be granted on the second payroll of the calendar year
and be used at any time during the remainder of that year's payroll period. The time for taking such
days off will be subject to the operational needs of the Company.
ARTICLE 32- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SECTION 1. The City agrees to grant necessary and reasonable time off without discrimination or loss
of seniority rights and without pay to any employee designated by the Union to attend a labor
convention or serve in any capacity on official Union business, provided forty-eight (48) hours written
notice is given to the City by the Union specifying the length of time off. The Union agrees that in
making its request for time off for Union activities due consideration shall be given to the number of
persons affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the City's operations due to lack of available
employees.
SECTION 2. Any employee desiring leave of absence from their employment shall request such leave
in writing from the Department Director or designee not less than thirty (30) days in advance of the
anticipated effective date of the leave. The City reserves the right to refuse a leave of absence request.
Leave of absence shall not exceed sixty (60) days and may be extended at the discretion of the City.
SECTION 3. During the period of absence the employee shall not engage in gainful employment.
Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the complete loss of seniority rights for the
employee involved. Inability to work because of proven sickness or injury shall not result in the loss of
seniority rights.
SECTION 4. The City does not pay health or life insurance premiums for employees who are on leave
without pay. It is the employee's responsibility to arrange for payment of the total premium.
SECTION 5. The Union and the City agree to abide by the Family Medical Leave Act.
SECTION 6. Any time in which an employee is on a leave of absence without pay that time will not
count towards the time in step required under Article 12, Section 2.
ARTICLE 33- COURT ATTENDANCE - JURY DUTY
SECTION 1. In the event an employee coming within the scope of this Agreement is required by the
City to act as a witness in court on behalf of the City resulting in the employee's loss of all or any part of
a regular day's work, the employee so involved shall be paid for the actual time lost.
SECTION 2. It is the intention of the parties that employees shall not lose wages when required to
perform jury duty. Any employee shall be paid regular wages for lost time but shall return to City any
pay for jury duty.
ARTICLE 34- UNIFORMS-UNIFORM REGULATIONS
SECTION 1. All bus operators shall be required to wear uniforms while on duty and such uniforms
shall be in accordance with the specifications of the City. Such specifications shall provide for summer
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 24 of 33 December 6, 2025and winter uniforms. Employees who are members of the Union will be permitted to wear the Union
emblem as agreed to by the city and the Union.
SECTION 2. The period of the year during which such uniforms shall be worn shall be designated by
the City. Bus operators are permitted the option of wearing the jacket while on duty; provided, however,
each operator will be required to have a complete uniform.
SECTION 3. Required uniforms: first year, uniform allowance for new-hire bus and van drivers will
consist of 4 shirts, 3 pants, 2 shorts, 1 tie, 1 belt and 1 jacket. In subsequent calendar years, full-time
employees will receive $400 a year for replacement of worn-out or damaged uniform items, including
shoes. Part-time employees will receive $275 a year. Uniforms will be purchased through a voucher
system redeemable at an approved vendor. Employees will be responsible for selecting an appropriate
mix of seasonal items for an entire year of service. During summer months, employees will be allowed
to wear shorts and polo shirts of City approved colors.
SECTION 4. Any operator appearing for duty and not in proper and acceptable uniform may, at the
option of the City, not be permitted to work.
SECTION 5. When the City shall require the maintenance employees to wear uniforms, and such
uniforms are rented, the City shall pay one hundred (100%) of such cost. When the City shall require the
maintenance employees to buy their uniforms, the City shall pay the maintenance employees for the
laundering of such uniforms.
SECTION 6. All maintenance employees are required to wear nonskid, steel-toed safety shoes and
belts while on duty. The City agrees, on an annual basis, to supply safety shoes to all maintenance
employees. The City will make the selection of vendor and style of the shoe. For the purpose of
clarification, annually is defined as a twelve (12)-month period beginning with the month of January.
All maintenance personnel not classified as Maintenance Mechanic A, B, or mechanic helper will
receive a tool allowance of $200.00 annually for tools purchased from a City approved list.
Maintenance Mechanics A, B, and mechanic helper will receive a tool allowance of $550.00 annually
for tools purchased from a City approved list.
SECTION 7. Clothing allowance will be earned at the rate of 1/12 per month. However, the whole
year's allowance will be available to the employee at the beginning of the contract year.
SECTION 8. Employees hired after October 1, will not receive additional clothing allowance the first
January 1 following their hire date.
SECTION 9. Uniforms will be returned to Wichita Transit within thirty (30) days of separation of
employment for any reason.
ARTICLE 35- SAFETY - ACCIDENTS - PREVENTION - REPORTS
SECTION 1. The City agrees that it shall not require an operator to drive vehicles which are not
mechanically sound and that are not in safe operating condition, or that are not equipped with safety
appliances prescribed by law. Operators shall report defects of equipment at the end of the shift on forms
furnished by the City.
SECTION 2. The City shall not require drivers to operate equipment reported unsafe or defective until
approved by the Superintendent of Transportation, General Manager, or designee. It is understood that
buses which are not equipped with defroster and heaters are to be regarded as unsafe during cold
weather. It is understood that buses which are not equipped with working heaters, defrosters, or air
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 25 of 33 December 6, 2025conditioning systems, (as determined by the Maintenance Division), are to be regarded as unsafe during
cold, hot, or inclement weather conditions.
SECTION 3. All accidents or observance of accidents in any way incidental to the operation of the
City's service, however apparently insignificant, and disturbances or unusual occurrences shall be fully,
properly, and completely reported by employees concerned on report forms furnished by the City. Such
accident or incident reports shall be made out and submitted to the City on the date of such accident or
occurrence, if possible, and shall be completed in conformity with the City's rules.
SECTION 4. Any employee involved in an accident or occurrence involving damage to a City-owned
vehicle or personal injury to a passenger must make an immediate report by telephone or radio, when
such vehicle may be equipped with two-way radio, to the City. Such report shall be made whenever such
accident or occurrence results in property damage or personal injury of any nature.
SECTION 5. The Union recognizes that accident prevention work is necessarily incident to the
operation of the City's transportation system and that safety programs, safety meetings, and general
accident prevention work is mutually beneficial to all employees and the City. The Union, therefore,
agrees that it will encourage the employees coming within the scope of this Agreement to voluntarily
cooperate with the City in its safety work and to take an active part and interest in accident prevention
work.
SECTION 6, City will abide by all applicable federal laws regarding safety of employees, vehicles,
work sites and maintenance shops. The general manager or his/her designee shall act as a contact for
union officials wishing to bring any safety issues to the attention of the City. The City will make every
reasonable effort, in the procurement of new vehicles to include in the specification's provisions for
speedometers, lumbar supports, and heated mirrors.
ARTICLE 36- EXACT FARE
No operator will be required to carry any money for purposes of making change for passengers.
ARTICLE 37- TRANSPORTATION TO WORK SITE
Any operator whose work shift begins or ends at any site other than the Transit Center shall be furnished
transportation to and/or from said work site. Every operator will be entitled to use the bus or other
vehicle furnished for such transportation.
ARTICLE 38- PARATRANSIT VAN OPERATORS
SECTION 1. Paratransit van operators will be on a separate seniority list. The seniority list will also be
separated by full-time and part-time employees. Any time worked on the paratransit van operators'
seniority list will not be carried forward to the bus operator's seniority list, in the event that an employee
is hired as a bus operator.
SECTION 2. Employees shall cross from one division to the other as needed. Any time an employee
crosses over to work in another division, the employee will be paid at the rate of pay for the job being
done, or his/her regular rate of pay, whichever is greater. The proper equipment will be used for the job.
SECTION 3, Full-time paratransit van operators with good work histories will be given priority
consideration for open positions as full-time bus operators.
SECTION 4. All paratransit van operators will be responsible for fueling their vehicles, each day at a
designated City fueling location. They will be compensated at the applicable hourly rate.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 26 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 5. Benefits: All benefits, holiday, and insurance coverage, etc. will be the same as those
outlined in the Contract for bus operators.
ARTICLE 39- PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
SECTION 1. Use of part-time employees. Part-time operators shall only be covered under sections of
this agreement dealing with probationary period, union membership, representation, discipline,
grievance procedure, FMLA, Military leave, holidays, and wages.
SECTION 2. Number of part-time employees. The number of part-time employees will be limited to
the following:
Paratransit:
Year 1
no more than 4 part-time operators or 20% of the full-time roster
(whichever is greater)
Year 2 and thereafter
no more than 5 part-time operators or 25% of the full-time roster
(whichever is greater)
Fixed route:
Year 1
No more than 4 part-time bus: fixed route bus operators.
SECTION 3. Work week. Part-time operators will not be allowed to work more than 28 hours in any
workweek.
SECTION 4. Guarantee. Part-time operators shall be paid for all time during which they are required
by Wichita Transit to perform any duties and shall be guaranteed a minimum of two hours work or pay
for each call in.
SECTION 5. Probationary period. All part-time operators probationary period will be 180 days.
SECTION 6. Seniority. Part-time operators will create seniority only within their group while so
employed.
SECTION 7. Preference for vacancies. Part-time operators who apply for full-time positions shall be
given preference for such employment on the basis of their seniority and performance with that group.
Full-time employees wanting to go to part-time will have preference to hiring from any other sources if
the employee performance record is acceptable.
SECTION 8. Uniforms. Part-time operators eligible for startup uniforms in the first year which consist
of four shirts, three pants, two shorts, one tie, one belt and a jacket. In subsequent calendar years part-
time employees will receive $275 a year for replacement of worn out or damaged uniform items
including shoes. Uniforms will be purchased from approved vendor unless specific approval was
received to obtain uniforms elsewhere. During summer months, employees will be allowed to wear
shorts and polo shirts of City approved colors.
SECTION 9. Bidding runs. Wichita Transit will assemble a part-time run cut at the same time that
full-time bid is prepared. Part-time runs will consist of no more than 28 hours of work per week. The
selection and assignment of runs will be bid according to article 16. During the life of this agreement if
there is a need to significantly reduce full-time bid paratransit runs the Union will be notified and their
input considered. In some circumstances runs will be constructed to meet a particular need to
accommodate other work schedules.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 27 of 33 December 6, 2025SECTION 10. Part-time holiday pay. Part-time operators will receive holiday pay for all holidays
observed by Wichita Transit. Part-time operators will receive pay for a holiday based on the average
number of hours that they work. Employees must work their entire work assignment the day before and
the day after a holiday to receive holiday pay unless excused by management.
SECTION 11. Extra Work. Part-time operators will be included in the overtime distribution process
but will be assigned work after efforts to assign work to the full-time extra board and full-time regular
operators have been exhausted. Extra part-time work will only be assigned as work week limits allow
(28 hours).
SECTION 12. Vacation/sick leave accruals. Part-time operators will accrue vacation and sick leave in
proportion equal to that of full-time employees consistent with articles 29 and 30.
ARTICLE 40- MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1. Picket Lines - It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and shall not be cause for
discharge or disciplinary action, in the event an employee refuses to go through or work behind any
picket line at the place of business of any other company where the employees of such company are
engaged in a strike ratified or approved by the Union of such employees.
SECTION 2. Waivers - The waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement by the parties hereto
shall not constitute a precedent for any subsequent waiver of any breach or condition.
SECTION 3. Prior Agreements - This Agreement constitutes the sole Agreement between the parties
and terminates and renders inactive all agreements, actual or implied, between the parties established or
made prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
SECTION 4. Bulletin Board - The company shall furnish a union bulletin board to be used for official
union business. Employees shall not remove, tamper with or alter any notice posted by the union.
Postings by the union on such board are to be confined to official business of the union and on the
union's official letterhead of the local or the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. The employee
seniority list shall be posted on the union bulletin boards and kept updated quarterly.
SECTION 5. Full-time Appointment - Full-time status is for employees who work at least 40 hours a
week performing work that is on-going.
SECTION 6. Bilingual pay shall be $135 per month. Bilingual pay shall be paid to each employee
designated by the Director. The Director shall determine which languages, other than English, are
necessary to conduct operations and how employees will be eligible to receive bilingual pay. An initial
test shall be established and administered by the Director or their designee to determine competency and
eligibility, but only those designated by the Director shall receive such pay.
ARTICLE 41 -INJURY LEAVE
SECTION 1. Full-Time Employees injured while performing their assigned duties may receive full salary for the
first 90 consecutive days from the date of injury. Probationary employees will be paid in accordance with the
provisions set forth by State Statute. In no event will the employee be permitted to receive an amount greater than
regular pay.
SECTION 2. Injury leave of more than 90 consecutive days shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of
the Workers' Compensation Act. Employees shall use accrued sick leave and vacation leave to supplement
Workers' Compensation to allow employees to receive a check equivalent to their normal take-home pay. Benefits
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 28 of 33 December 6, 2025are not accrued on the portion of Workers Compensation received (accept those agreed to in Article 27 of this
agreement). In the event all sick leave and vacation leave are taken, the employee will then be paid according to
the terms set forth in the Workers' Compensation Act until the employee is released to return to work.
SECTION 3. Employees on long term Injury Leave will not receive merit increases. The advancement date will
be adjusted by the length of time the employee is on Injury Leave.
SECTION 4. Recurring Injury Leave. Recurring leave of absence relating to a previous injury shall be considered
one and the same injury, if the injury occurs within 365 days, subject to administrative analysis and diagnosis of
the injury reported by the attending physician. However, if recurring leave related to a previous injury is required
after one year (365 days) from the date of release by the physician and return to work, such leave will be treated
as a new injury.
SECTION 5. Officially Certified Appointed Physician. The risk manager will provide Department Directors,
division directors and the Union with the names of the doctors appointed to handle cases coming under the
Workers' Compensation Act. An employee who sustains an injury while on the job shall first obtain permission
from the employee's supervisor before consulting or obtaining treatment for such an injury from a physician,
whether such physician is City appointed or the employe's personal physician. Workers' Compensation requires
notification of the employer within ten (10) days of the injury. In the event of a life-threatening injury, 911 should
be called to dispatch emergency medical personnel to treat and transport the injured employee to the nearest
approved medical facility.
SECTION 6. Use of Unauthorized Physician. The City is not responsible or liable for any physician's bill for
consultation or treatment of injuries which an employee sustains while the employee is not on the job. If an
employee on Injury Leave desires a second opinion, the employee may obtain a second opinion subject to the
limitations of the Workers' Compensation Act. Prior approval of the Workers' Compensation Administration is
required. If the employee fails to obtain the Workers' Compensation Administrator's permission, the City shall not
be liable or responsible for paying the physician's bill.
Nothing herein shall be construed to negate the provisions of the Kansas Workers' Compensation Act.
ARTICLE 42- SUBCONTRACTING
The ability to subcontract work currently provided by in-house staff is a management right subject to the
provisions of the most recent 13C agreement in effect. In the event that management determines a need
to subcontract work, the city agrees to notify the union of its intentions. If the subcontracting of work
would result in the direct layoff of bargaining unit employees working in the area being considered for
subcontracting, the city agrees to allow the union 30 days from the time of the notification to submit a
competitive proposal to the city for the same work. The union proposal would be subject to the same
terms and conditions as those imposed upon outside providers. The city agrees to provide the union
with all relevant information provided to outside entities intending to bid on the subcontracted work. If
the proposal submitted by the union meets or exceeds the best and most responsive outside proposal as
judged by the established selection criteria, then the city agrees to accept the union proposal to provide
the work. Said agreement provisions would supersede any rights or privileges contained elsewhere in
the collective bargaining agreement and would pertain specifically to the work functions outlined in the
subcontracting scope of work.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 29 of 33 December 6, 2025ARTICLE 43- SEPARABILITY
SECTION 1. This Agreement shall be subject to and subordinate in all respects to any present or
subsequent federal or state law or regulation to the extent that any of the provisions herein contained be
in conflict herewith, such provisions or portions thereof shall become null, and void and the remaining
portions shall remain in full force and affect.
SECTION 2. This Agreement shall further be subject in all respects to a reduction of workday or work
week hours as those herein established, should the Fair Labor Standards Act be amended as to repeal the
exemption from overtime of bus operators, conductors or maintenance employees or other employees of
the City subject thereto.
ARTICLE 44- DURATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 1. The Agreement shall be in effect from the date it is fully executed and shall continue in
effect until December 6, 2025 through December 01, 2028. The parties may give notice and reopen
negotiations per Section 2 below.
SECTION 2. Notice as prescribed in Section 1 above shall be in writing and delivered to other party
between March 1 and March 31, 2028 for the 2029 contract. These dates are consistent with the budget
dates of the City of Wichita and will permit the City to budget for any cost changes resulting from the
negotiations. If such notice is given it shall also contain an offer to meet and confer with the other party
for the purpose of negotiating a new Agreement.
SECTION 3. If no Agreement shall have been reached between the parties within thirty (30) days prior
to the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the parties agree to contact either an individual agreeable
to both parties, or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or any state agency, established to
mediate and conciliate disputes within the state, to mediate the dispute. If such mediation is
unsuccessful, an impasse shall be declared as provided by state law.
SECTION 4. It is the intention of the parties hereto that nothing in this agreement shall violate the
Kansas Cash Basis Law or Budget Law, and that this agreement will be construed so as to ensure that
the City of Wichita is at no time in violation of its obligation under either such laws.
SECTION 5. If, for any reason, any provision hereof or of the agreement shall be determined to be invalid
or unenforceable, the validity and effect of the other provisions hereof shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE 45- SCOPE OF BARGAINING
The parties acknowledge that during the meetings that resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited
right and opportunity to make requests and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by
law, and that the complete understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that
right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 30 of 33 December 6, 2025IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties Yhereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and signed by their
duly authorized representatives this 2lg day of L 1ujr,(2025.
CITY OF WICHITA
TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 795
Lily
ernando Harms, Business Agent
alter
oleman, Business Agent
Jason Hood. H.R. Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
I
ATTEST:
Shinita Rice, City Clerk
Jennifer Magana, Director of Law
(in' 01 J*whira & ieanisters Union Local 95
Page 4/ of 32 l )ecernber n. 10152026 Wage Table - 3% COLA & Step
Adjustments Bus Utility Worker Van Drier Bus Mechanic Helper Bus Operator Bus Mechanic B Bus Mechanic A Step A Step B Step C Step D Step E Step F Step G Step H Step I Step J Step K Step L Step M Step N Step O
Classification Title Range Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Step 7 Step 8 Step 9 Step 10 Step 11 Step 12 Step 13 Step 14 Step 15
5312 16.0742 16.4761 16.8880 17.3102 17.7429 18.1865 18.6411 19.1071 19.5848 20.0745 20.5763 21.0907 21.6179 22.1584 22.7124
5314 16.9284 17.3516 17.7854 18.2301 18.6857 19.1530 19.6317 20.1225 20.6256 21.1413 21.6698 22.2115 22.7668 23.3360 23.9194
5315 16.9284 17.3516 17.7854 18.2301 18.6857 19.1530 19.6317 20.1225 20.6256 21.1413 21.6698 22.2115 22.7668 23.3360 23.9194
5316 18.5804 19.0449 19.5210 20.0090 20.5093 21.0220 21.5475 22.0862 22.6384 23.2044 23.7845 24.3791 24.9885 25.6132 26.2536
5317 19.4245 19.9100 20.4078 20.9180 21.4410 21.9770 22.5264 23.0895 23.6668 24.2585 24.8649 25.4865 26.1237 26.7768 27.4462
5320 22.2768 22.8338 23.4046 23.9897 24.5895 25.2042 25.8344 26.4802 27.1421 27.8207 28.5163 29.2291 29.9599 30.7088 31.4766
2027 Wage Table - 3% COLA Step A Step B Step C Step D Step E Step F Step G Step H Step I Step J Step K Step L Step M Step N Step O
Classification Title Range Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Step 7 Step 8 Step 9 Step 10 Step 11 Step 12 Step 13 Step 14 Step 15
Bus Utility Worker 5312 16.5564 16.9704 17.3946 17.8295 18.2752 18.7321 19.2003 19.6803 20.1723 20.6767 21.1936 21.7234 22.2664 22.8232 23.3938
Van Driver 5314 17.4363 17.8721 18.3190 18.7770 19.2463 19.7276 20.2207 20.7262 21.2444 21.7755 22.3199 22.8778 23.4498 24.0361 24.6370
Bus Mechanic Helper 5315 17.4363 17.8721 18.3190 18.7770 19.2463 19.7276 20.2207 20.7262 21.2444 21.7755 22.3199 22.8778 23.4498 24.0361 24.6370
Bus Operator 5316 19.1378 19.6162 20.1066 20.6093 21.1246 21.6527 22.1939 22.7488 23.3176 23.9005 24.4980 25.1105 25.7382 26.3816 27.0412
Bus Mechanic B 5317 20.0072 20.5073 21.0200 21.5455 22.0842 22.6363 23.2022 23.7822 24.3768 24.9863 25.6108 26.2511 26.9074 27.5801 28.2696
Bus Mechanic A 5320 22.9451 23.5188 24.1067 24.7094 25.3272 25.9603 26.6094 27.2746 27.9564 28.6553 29.3718 30.1060 30.8587 31.6301 32.4209
2028 Wage Table - 3% COLA Step A Step B Step C Step D Step E Step F Step G Step H Step I Step J Step K Step L Step M Step N Step O
Classification Title Range Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Step 7 Step 8 Step 9 Step 10 Step 11 Step 12 Step 13 Step 14 Step 15
Bus Utility Worker 5312 17.0531 17.4795 17.9164 18.3644 18.8235 19.2941 19.7763 20.2707 20.7775 21.2970 21.8294 22.3751 22.9344 23.5079 24.0956
Van Driver 5314 17.9594 18.4083 18.8686 19.3403 19.8237 20.3194 20.8273 21.3480 21.8817 22.4288 22.9895 23.5641 24.1533 24.7572 25.3761
Bus Mechanic Helper 5315 17.9594 18.4083 18.8686 19.3403 19.8237 20.3194 20.8273 21.3480 21.8817 22.4288 22.9895 23.5641 24.1533 24.7572 25.3761
Bus Operator 5316 19.7119 20.2047 20.7098 21.2276 21.7583 22.3023 22.8597 23.4313 24.0171 24.6175 25.2329 25.8638 26.5103 27.1730 27.8524
Bus Mechanic B 5317 20.6074 21.1225 21.6506 22.1919 22.7467 23.3154 23.8983 24.4957 25.1081 25.7359 26.3791 27.0386 27.7146 28.4075 29.1177
Bus Mechanic A 5320 23.6335 24.2244 24.8299 25.4507 26.0870 26.7391 27.4077 28.0928 28.7951 29.5150 30.2530 31.0092 31.7845 32.5790 33.3935
City of Wichita & Teamsters Union Local 795 Page 32 of 33

